♪[music]♪
This video we're going to learn about what
controllers are. And in order for us to
understand what a controller is, we
need to talk about the MVC pattern,
so I've made this little graph
or chart, it's not a graph, it's a chart.
I made you this amazing chart and it sort
of explains the design pattern that we're
going to be using. A design pattern is a
way that you architect your code and a way
that you organize your code. So here we
have a model which is the M, we've got
view, which is the V, and the controller
which is the C. So the V, we've already
done, the View, that's our templates,
that's our pug files that we actually
template everything else out in. The
model is going to be the code that we
write in the data that is
stored that accesses the database.
So if we need to query
the top 10 stores or we need to find
stores that have a specific tag or we
need to pull reviews that are related
to a store or we need to
get a list of stores that are within 10
kilometers of the latitude or longitude.
So all of those queries, all of that
stuff that interacts with fetching data
from our database, that's our model layer
and we're going to go into that. Then we
have a view layer which, is our templates.
And then the sort of the traffic cop in
between the model and the view,
because it got to get data and put it
into a template. So the person that or
the thing that gets the data and puts it
into a template is called the controller.
And I like to think of the controller
as just like traffic cop sort of
sitting in the middle and saying,
"Hey model, give me some data."
It pulls it back, and
then once it has the data,
it sends it over to the view. So
if we were to think of...I always love
stupid ways to relate it to life. You
know, if you have friends, many of you do,
you might have one of those friends in
your group that's always organizing
everything. So you want to have a party,
you might have friends who have alcohol
and snacks, that would be your model. You
might have friends that have a place to
party, maybe they know a good restaurant
or maybe they have a house that you can go
to, that would be your view. But those two
people can't get along together because
they're just totally useless. They've got
the goods but they can't get along.
So you always have that one friend that's
texting everybody and making Facebook
events and sort of in between and
making sure that it all comes together,
that's what the controller is.
It has to be an examples here.
So if we look at this
code here, you'll see that
we have written all of this logic
and we've directly tied it to a route.
And that, after you've build a
large application can get really really
messy, it can be really hard to test. It's
not reusable at all, because like what
happens if you wanted to do similar or the
same code on a different route? Like
"/hello" then you'll have to like copy
paste the code? No. So what we do is we
factor this code out into its
own controller. If you open up
your file system here,
and you'll see we have a folder
called controllers, that's
where all of our controllers are going to
live. And generally, I like to create a
controller for every specific area of the
website, so we'll have a controller for
dealing with stores, creating and finding
them, we'll have a controller for dealing
with the users, we'll have a controller
for dealing with the reviews and surely
each specific part of your application
each functional part of your
application will have its own controller.
So we'll open that up, we'll make
a new file. I'm going to call it store
controller, I like to camel case them
.JS. And then we have to export all of
the different functions that happen. Now
again, a controller is just this part of
our actual code, so we can go
into here and on our exports variable.
So exports is sort of a global
variable, and anything that you put
on the exports variable will
be importable in another file.
So with the exports., and we'll call this
home page because this is going to handle
whenever someone requests a home page and
we'll set that to be an error function.
Here, we have our requests, we have our
response and then we will simply just say
res.render our index file. Then we'll go
into our index. JS and we can get rid of
all this, joking around here. So what
have we done? We have rendered our gate/
and then we need to give it our
controller function here. So first thing
we need to do is import it. Say
cons store controller equals. And then
we're going to require
dot full slash, because it's a relative
file into our controllers file.
Oh, we actually know we need
to go up because
what file are we in right now?
We're on the route, so we go upper level
into our controllers and then get our
store controller . Well here, we'll say
store controller. and then what was the
method we made? Our home page, .Homepage.
And what this does is it will then take
this function here and we will essentially
just copy and paste it into here,
But now that code is not directly tied to
the route. It's just tied to being its own
function and we can pull that out
and put it, attach it to any route that we
want at any time. Now, if you were to try
and refresh this, we're going to see an
error here. As you can see fail to look at
views index in views directory. And that's
because we haven't created our index file
yet, right? We're trying to render index
but we haven't yet passed it anything. So
we'll go to our views directory. We'll
create a new file named
index.pug and if we just
put a paragraph that says,
"Hi, in there." And refresh,
now you'll see that as rendering out
our index.pug file. Now that's not good
enough. We want that extends the layout
and we want to make, how did you...hi in
there whenever we have
a block called content inside of that.
We invent at one level
for our paragraph, so see how
we're doing there. There
we go. Now it's showing up. We
have our high, we've got the rest of our
page being laid out. So generally how it's
going to work, and this is how we are
going to have it. It is our route file,
is simply just going to tell us what
the URLs that we hit are, and then we will
always shell it off to a separate file to
do the actual work. So we always
shell off the work to a store controller
and sometimes we're going to multiple
in here, which is what we're going
to learn next. It's called Middleware.
So that's it. Let's
jump on to the next one.
♪[music]♪